I'm Deb shoemaker and I'm an art
therapist and I work with integrated
therapy associates I'm gonna talk to you
a little bit now about using paint with
children in art therapy I use paint with
children of all ages and I usually don't
bring out the paint the first session
some art therapists do I know they
that's even part of some art therapy
assessments is to have the pencil paint
and clay in each one but I typically
don't because I'm I want to make sure I
just really have seen in my experiences
how bringing out paint can actually call
up some some ways to be really
unstructured and in my setting that's
not really conducive when the paint is
presented and I've feel that it's
appropriate and helpful in therapeutic
one of the ways I've learned over the
years that painting can be therapeutic
for children is in the mixing of the
colors and they get such joy and and
just surprise and amazement and
self-esteem and confidence in making
their own colors with the paint and many
sessions
we've spent just blending the paint's
together not making a picture or image
just wow look at that color and then
there becomes all this wonderful praise
and self-confidence and really good for
children who are dealing with low
self-esteem and just can't seem to do
anything right at school or at home or
in their life and but and they're able
to make these wonderful colors and so
that's one of the way one of the
therapeutic benefits that I have
personally seen a mime in my work with
children sometimes the magical things
happen with the fluidy things turn out
not the way they intended so it becomes
more of a subconscious medium where that
blob of paint that that fell on the
or as I use the brush and it kept the
paint kept growing on the paper it turns
into some another image that's that the
child can project onto you or that the
art therapist can project onto and
remember to always consult with a
professional art therapist for more
information